Hello Goodbye Thank you I'm Hungry I swear Fire I hate you Toy What Apple Ice cream Butt One Two Three For you Chair Cheers Can we start Look at you Kiss I'm sorry Bottom Stop

Ethics in business seems to have just recently become such a critical issue, and with good reason. The financial crisis in 2008 effected so many people and hit so hard that we’re still picking ourselves up from it almost 10 years later. But as our generation starts getting ushered into the business world, it is essential that we continue the recovery on a strong foundation of sound business practices and trust. All of which will come from smarter, more ethical decision making. I feel as if ethics was always a subject that was swept under the rug, either by universities as a whole, or by students who actually had the class. Like so many of those classes that we as freshman consider pointless or a waste of time, ethics must have been thought in the same light. And now, as the article points out, businesses are singling out ethical behavior as the most important quality of an applicant. This shows how far we have come, and how far businesses have come when it comes to the way their operations are run. 
	An ethics professor of mine ones told me “people aren’t inherently evil; they just don’t think sometimes”. It can be debated whether that’s actually true or not, but I think for the most part, people don’t want to intentionally harm others. Therefore, it is plausible that the people running businesses right now (and for the last couple decades) simply gave no thought to what ethical behavior is. That sounds rather foolish to us now, but we had the advantage of watching the fallout occur. This isn’t an excuse for what happened, and my intention is not to give them a reprieve, however it is important to understand what happens when even the most successful people aren’t educated on ethics. Luckily, businesses and universities alike are taking action to make sure there is no repeat of 2008.
	The mindset is slowly shifting from “How do we make the most profit?” to “What is the best thing to do for the most amount of people?”. Many times, it can even be a common goal. The more the focus of hiring switches to ethical people over just talented people, the more I believe we’ll begin to see a change in the perception of corporations and business people as power and money hungry. Obviously, talent cannot be sacrificed wholly, but universities such as Loyola are doing their part in finding the best of both skill sets. Number one in teaching ethics speaks volumes for this school, and as it produces better graduates, so will the reputation of this business school. The key there though, is with that reputation, grows the reputation of the ethical part of the business school. I think eventually, businesses will see Loyola as an attractive school to hire from for this exact reason. They are looking for ethical people, this school’s specialty. 
	The question of ethics blends nicely between the two articles. The ways that valuations of shares can be manipulated by people is alarming, and as the article points out, someone is always going to be unhappy. It seems as though the people that can alter it the most are the short term investors, those who are looking to sell every day. Without researching it, I would assume that the vast majority of investors are in it for the long haul, either saving for retirement or whatever other reason they may have. The bottom line is; their full time job isn’t trading shares daily. So those few who are on top of the market day in and day out can potentially harm a very large number of people. Sure, people may say that’s how you get ahead in that game, but is it ethical? This is where the problem surrounding the shareholder value theory becomes apparent. Since the corporations don’t technically need to appease their shareholders, there really shouldn’t be too much opposition to running a business the way the company wants to run it. There should be no unethical stockholder influence into how things are done just so they earn that little bit more. I’m sure the argument would be brought up then that if it isn’t run the way a certain group people want then people won’t invest in the company, but is that really true? If it is run ethically, by good people, who truly care about what they’re doing or making and are influencing their community positively, then people will like it. They will still want to invest in that kind of company, and the loss of those unethical influencers most likely won’t be too great.
	The article does a good job of further emphasizing the point that the shareholder primacy method has led to significantly fewer public corporation and an overall underperforming business sector, beyond just the point that investors aren’t receiving as great a yield as they were anticipating. By solely focusing on profit maximizing, as shareholders desire, companies miss out on so many other aspects of their social responsibility. Things like unethical labor practices, or waste management problems, or even just failure to take care of their employees are all by products of narrow sightedness. Investors may not see what their demands cause companies to do (or they just don’t care), but organizations are the ones with the power, and they need to be the ones to make the change.
	Synthesizing the material from both of these articles, I can’t help but realize that the two of them could very well lead to the way of the future. By that I mean, we have students from the last handful of years graduating with a strong understanding of ethics and ethical business practices who still have the effects of the financial crisis fresh in their mind. On the other hand, we now have the data to disprove the theory that maximizing shareholder value actually yields a higher return for investors. So I see a perfect opportunity here for the newer generation of workers to begin phasing out the demands of eager shareholders, and return to the practice of corporations acting under their own agendas. This is the change that corporations need to make, and realize they have the power to do it. Once again though, seeing as we have so many ethically educated students entering the work force soon, the new agenda does not imply one that is detrimental to stockholders. It should in theory, end up benefitting more and more people from employees to the community as a whole.
Creating an open environment within a company can be tricky since it requires trust and communication. Managers must be open to sharing stories of ethical behavior, which might make them come off as arrogant, while employees must be open to communicating when they experience unethical behavior. If they carry a positive attitude, then they will realize what is best for the company, and be able to practice pointing out ethical and unethical behavior. The more this idea is spread, the better off a company will be, which is why finding the right employees is so important.
