tone Hello Goodbye Thank you I'm Hungry I swear Fire I hate you Toy What Apple Ice cream Butt One Two Three For you Chair Cheers Can we start Look at you Kiss I'm sorry Bottom Stop

Ethics in business seems to have just recently become such a critical issue, and with good reason. The financial crisis in 2008 effected so many people and hit so hard that we’re still picking ourselves up from it almost 10 years later. But as our generation starts getting ushered into the business world, it is essential that we continue the recovery on a strong foundation of sound business practices and trust. All of which will come from smarter, more ethical decision making. I feel as if ethics was always a subject that was swept under the rug, either by universities as a whole, or by students who actually had the class. Like so many of those classes that we as freshman consider pointless or a waste of time, ethics must have been thought in the same light. And now, as the article points out, businesses are singling out ethical behavior as the most important quality of an applicant. This shows how far we have come, and how far businesses have come when it comes to the way their operations are run. 
	An ethics professor of mine ones told me “people aren’t inherently evil; they just don’t think sometimes”. It can be debated whether that’s actually true or not, but I think for the most part, people don’t want to intentionally harm others. Therefore, it is plausible that the people running businesses right now (and for the last couple decades) simply gave no thought to what ethical behavior is. That sounds rather foolish to us now, but we had the advantage of watching the fallout occur. This isn’t an excuse for what happened, and my intention is not to give them a reprieve, however it is important to understand what happens when even the most successful people aren’t educated on ethics. Luckily, businesses and universities alike are taking action to make sure there is no repeat of 2008.
	The mindset is slowly shifting from “How do we make the most profit?” to “What is the best thing to do for the most amount of people?”. Many times, it can even be a common goal. The more the focus of hiring switches to ethical people over just talented people, the more I believe we’ll begin to see a change in the perception of corporations and business people as power and money hungry. Obviously, talent cannot be sacrificed wholly, but universities such as Loyola are doing their part in finding the best of both skill sets. Number one in teaching ethics speaks volumes for this school, and as it produces better graduates, so will the reputation of this business school. The key there though, is with that reputation, grows the reputation of the ethical part of the business school. I think eventually, businesses will see Loyola as an attractive school to hire from for this exact reason. They are looking for ethical people, this school’s specialty. 
	The question of ethics blends nicely between the two articles. The ways that valuations of shares can be manipulated by people is alarming, and as the article points out, someone is always going to be unhappy. It seems as though the people that can alter it the most are the short term investors, those who are looking to sell every day. Without researching it, I would assume that the vast majority of investors are in it for the long haul, either saving for retirement or whatever other reason they may have. The bottom line is; their full time job isn’t trading shares daily. So those few who are on top of the market day in and day out can potentially harm a very large number of people. Sure, people may say that’s how you get ahead in that game, but is it ethical? This is where the problem surrounding the shareholder value theory becomes apparent. Since the corporations don’t technically need to appease their shareholders, there really shouldn’t be too much opposition to running a business the way the company wants to run it. There should be no unethical stockholder influence into how things are done just so they earn that little bit more. I’m sure the argument would be brought up then that if it isn’t run the way a certain group people want then people won’t invest in the company, but is that really true? If it is run ethically, by good people, who truly care about what they’re doing or making and are influencing their community positively, then people will like it. They will still want to invest in that kind of company, and the loss of those unethical influencers most likely won’t be too great.
	The article does a good job of further emphasizing the point that the shareholder primacy method has led to significantly fewer public corporation and an overall underperforming business sector, beyond just the point that investors aren’t receiving as great a yield as they were anticipating. By solely focusing on profit maximizing, as shareholders desire, companies miss out on so many other aspects of their social responsibility. Things like unethical labor practices, or waste management problems, or even just failure to take care of their employees are all by products of narrow sightedness. Investors may not see what their demands cause companies to do (or they just don’t care), but organizations are the ones with the power, and they need to be the ones to make the change.
	Synthesizing the material from both of these articles, I can’t help but realize that the two of them could very well lead to the way of the future. By that I mean, we have students from the last handful of years graduating with a strong understanding of ethics and ethical business practices who still have the effects of the financial crisis fresh in their mind. On the other hand, we now have the data to disprove the theory that maximizing shareholder value actually yields a higher return for investors. So I see a perfect opportunity here for the newer generation of workers to begin phasing out the demands of eager shareholders, and return to the practice of corporations acting under their own agendas. This is the change that corporations need to make, and realize they have the power to do it. Once again though, seeing as we have so many ethically educated students entering the work force soon, the new agenda does not imply one that is detrimental to stockholders. It should in theory, end up benefitting more and more people from employees to the community as a whole.

Both of this week’s articles build perfectly upon the articles from last week. I had mentioned that businesses have a duty to help more than just their shareholders, because of how great their influence is. Little did I know I was already discussing the rights of stakeholders. Clearly, more and more executives are also realizing the importance of the stakeholder as opposed to just the shareholder. But that doesn’t necessarily mean neglecting them, because there is a very good chance that many of a company’s stakeholders are also their shareholders. By that I mean, someone holding shares of Apple can very well also be holding an iPhone in his or her hand. Since that person is a customer of Apple, they will also benefit from an ethical business utilizing a stakeholder value approach. Customers could be the biggest stakeholder in company, meaning they most likely will receive a lot of attention. What can be said then, about those people who are both stakeholders and shareholders, and hold on to the primacy theory of the latter of those two?
	Surely this group of people exists, where someone belongs to both groups. How unethical is then when these people vie for a shareholder primacy theory? At that point, there is no regard for fellow consumers, or the community, or anyone else. It’s all about maximizing their own profit. Through this it’s easy to see how businesses are not the only guilty party when it comes to profit maximizing. As the second article points out, again, the stakeholder value theory is proven to be more successful, and has the goal of helping out the most amount of people. Yet the greed of some shareholders who can influence companies almost singlehandedly transcends this logic in the pursuit of their own gains. Through this, they are completely undermining anyone else who owns Apple products, for the sole purpose of profit. There’s no two ways about it. It’s an interesting paradigm, and the irony behind it is the most damning.
	
The theme of businesses becoming more ethical is prevalent again in the first article, which is an encouraging sign for the future. It’s scary to think that businesses actually thought their ethical standards could be less than that of an individual not too long ago. My favorite quote from the articles was “If organizations are entities unto themselves, capable of bearing legal obligations, then they are also capable of bearing moral obligations” (Denning). It is well known that corporations are their own legal entity, like we’ve been told for years. Yet I have never thought of them as anything more than machine doing a job. It’s not like they show emotions like a human, yet the quote could not have described the reality any better. People run these corporations, and they are reflections of those people. This is why it is so important for these people to understand the positive effects ethical business practices can cause.
If the numbers proving the effectiveness of running a trustworthy operation are so readily available to see for a student such as myself, logically corporations must already be adjusting their policies. Maybe that’s evident in the several quotes from CEO’s released recently. There’s just no reason in this day to be running a company with unethical intentions. People will come back to you if you are a trustworthy company. Stock prices go up because people like the things the company is doing. People continue coming back in the form of customers who enjoy the product and employees who enjoy the work environment. Happy employees produce better products and ideas. There is more room for forgiveness in case something goes wrong, although maybe not to the extent of a BP or Volkswagen situation. But the perks of operating in such a way are so overwhelming positive, that it’s strange more companies aren’t on board. Which leads me to believe there is something I am missing, or maybe it is just early in the over hauling process. As John Mackey states, the approval of big business in the country right now is only 18 percent. One would think it could only go up from here.
An indication of how early on in the process corporations are is the amount of people who are willing to switch jobs if given the opportunity. Employees are a company’s greatest asset. No computer can replace all human minds, so nurturing this stakeholder becomes a critical component of success. And yet it is difficult for a company to be able to specifically target just appeasing one group of stakeholders. So much effort is put into giving shareholders voting rights with the purchase of stock in the company, all the while stakeholders who are just as effected

Most people tend to not trust big companies these days. Part of it obviously has to do with the crisis, but part of it is also just the nature of people today. At least in the United States, people are more skeptical than in the past. Most strangers do not acknowledge each other on the street, elevator rides are quiet, and getting to know someone takes more effort than it should. As a byproduct of this behavior, trust among peers can also be difficult to come by. And if people struggle to trust each other, then it’s no surprise corporations are not trusted either. The cause of this societal norm isn’t exactly clear, but there are some things that can be connected to the lack of trust. As mentioned earlier, the financial crisis is one of them. For many people, understanding the ins and outs of investing or the operations of a business is too much. Whether it be for lack of education on the subject or just a lack of interest, it does not necessarily matter, because financial professionals don’t even understand it all. Regardless, some people trust that the financial markets will handle themselves and businesses will operate efficiently and they can go on living their lives. So when those systems come crashing down as in the case of the crisis, there will be a loss of trust in those institutions. Banks will lose depositors, retailers will lose customers, and the economy will suffer even more. After such an episode, one can bet that customers will hesitate to trust those that caused them harm again.
	Another reason that people are so skeptical towards companies now is because it is the age of information and technology. Everyone is so plugged in that there is next to nothing a company can do or say that will not be scrutinized by critics and everyday people alike. Any misstep will be noticed and will affect the way one thinks about a certain institution. Technology has influenced people in such a way that we no longer take anything given to us at face value. As soon as someone tells us a fact or gives a controversial opinion, the phones are whipped out and the fact checking begins. Again, people don’t really trust each anymore, which means businesses are trusted even less.
	Personal inconsistency is the type of lacking integrity that can be most associated with companies. Enron is the perfect example of this. The way they displayed their so called values made them seem like the ideal company working for the people and the community before themselves. Yet behind the scenes, there was a very different story unfolding which would deal a crushing blow to consumer confidence in big business. This is the lack of integrity that people fear businesses operate with. They will tell the media all about how great a product is or how they are bettering the environment, but are they following up on those statements in their operations or are they exploiting workers and resources in Southeast Asia? Stories like these are countless unfortunately, even with seemingly respectable companies such as Apple, and consumers are all too used to them. One could not blame them then, for being skeptical whenever a press statement is released to the public. 
	This is by no means a criticism of how all businesses are run or a statement condemning all corporations, but the perceptions stated earlier are ever present today and companies have a tall task in trying to turn public opinion around. There is a lot of talk surrounding company Credos and their worth. It is true that there is no real substance to a Credo. Any person in the world can write themselves one and feel good about their accomplishments. There is no doubt that Enron felt they had done their part by writing the perfect Credo that was edited ten times until it sounded like they truly cared. The Credo is nothing without the right people and culture supporting it and the company. Johnson and Johnson’s most likely said something very similar to that of Enron’s, and yet it seemed to work much better for J & J somehow. Employees look up to their managers or bosses whether they want to admit it or not. If a higher up does not act a certain way, the employees will follow that example regardless of the writing on their wall. Therefore, there is no use to touting a company Credo if the management of that company chooses not to adhere to it. Their actions are mirrored throughout the company, not their inspirational sayings. CEO’s who have their values reverberate through their company are respected by the public, because they know that those are the businesses working for the greater good.
	For the most part, it would seem that CEOs now understand the importance of building trust with customers in order to succeed. However, the trick is figuring out how to get it. Upper management must realize that they are dealing with real people. Everyone in that board room knows how difficult it can be to build a relationship with someone to the point where they can honestly trust them. It can take months or years to be that close to someone. To make it even more challenging, it is a company trying to gain someone’s trust and not a person so the communication is not as clear and easy as with another human being. 
Starbucks set the example on how to ensure that both the employees and customer understand how welcome and important they are, and they understood it took time. This isn’t a method of saving money, it’s a method of saving a company. The first step is to ensure that the employees are in line with the values of the company. Even though upper management sets the culture, the everyday employee is the one who deals most closely with the customer, so it is imperative that they are on the same page. The second step is a result of the first step being successful. When employees treat customers with respect and care, then the relationship between the two parties can begin to build. Of course, a quality product and efficient customer service is needed to keep at consumer. However, that first interaction with an employee can make or break whether or not the customer chooses to return, and these businesses know better than anyone else how essential it is to retain customers instead finding new ones. People have high standards for companies, so simply having a quality product is not enough to keep a customer loyal, they also have to be able to trust them.

Social experiments have revealed some troubling things about human nature. When we are comfortable with our surroundings, we are able to mask our true selves for others and maybe even ourselves because we are not generally dealt situations that require us to delve deep into who we are. It must take something very unique then to open people up in a way that would expose themselves. The brilliance is really in the creation of the experiments.

I fear that Ms. Vinson’s experience while working for WorldCom can be all to relatable for many people. The article describes a very high profile instance of submissive workers, but it would not be surprising to hear that many people struggle with problems very similar to those she dealt with. Let’s take the typical college student, for example. Students are under an intense amount of pressure to obtain an internship (if not multiple) in order to bolster their credibility as potential employees. So once one is accepted to a position, the likelihood that the intern was to not listen or abide by their boss’s demands are very slim. They hold all the power over an intern, whether it be for a recommendation in the future, or simply maintain the position for the length of posting. Obviously, there is a major difference in the stature of a college intern and Ms. Vinson, but the idea of power stays very similar. Interns have very little choice in the way things go at their internship. They go there hoping to learn about business operations and further their understanding of their field of study. If their employer has a different opinion about what they will be doing however, such as fetching donuts and coffee instead of contributing, what’s to say that does not spill over into unethical demands? Students are vulnerable to being put into compromising positions by those who hold power over them, even if the consequences are not as grand as those of higher up managers.
	It is not as if Ms. Vinson began her position at WorldCom asking herself: How can I scam people today? She had a normal family, working every day in conjunction with her husband to earn their family a decent living. Situations in life can make it very difficult however, to do the “right” thing. Because in Ms. Vinson’s life, the right thing might have seemed that she needed to keep her job as the main breadwinner, in order to support her 12-year-old daughter and husband. Losing over half of the household income does not sound like the right thing to do when family welfare is on the line. If she had given up her position at WorldCom, what kinds of consequences would her family have to deal with? It would not be impossible to live solely off of her husband’s income of $40,000 a year, but it would most likely lead to them needing to move again. It’s not easy for pre-teen kid to be moving around constantly, changing schools and friends, and overall having very little stability so early on. In essence, Ms. Vinson did not have an easy decision to make. Hindsight is always 20-20, but she was doing what she thought was necessary for the welfare of her family, and it’s hard to blame her for that.
	Yet in the eyes of the law, she was to blame. It would have been different had her bosses put a gun to their head and told them to perform the fraudulent actions, that was not the case. Just because she was put into a difficult position, does not mean she had no other options. People are faced with tough choices every day, and she was had just one of many on that day. So while there can be sympathy surrounding Ms. Vinson’s situation, that does not mean she should be absolved of her crimes. People make bad choices, and as stated earlier, it is not as if Ms. Vinson took the job looking to harm anyone. Unfortunately, punishment is necessary even when good people break the law.
	At what point then, do her (and her colleagues) become at fault for their actions. It is understandable that they were pressured heavily by their bosses to hide the expenses, especially the first time. As the problem persisted quarter after quarter though, something must have clicked in their minds that something else should be done. Once the guilt is eating away at these people so much that they can’t sleep and lawyers are being consulted, there must be reasonable doubt about their actions. Yet it would seem, judging from how skittish the three of them were during the first shuffling of the books, that they knew on some level that they would be at fault from the start. Except for the fact that their bosses claimed that they would take full responsibility for the actions. And once responsibility is shifted from the doer’s shoulders to those of a higher authority, then it allows for certain psychological leniency on the part of the doer.
	There is interesting speculation as to why people would listen to an authority figure in an instance such as the Milgram experiment, where the subject and experimenter have no relation to each other. Many people refused to continue with the experiment exactly for that reason. It’s a different story when the authority figure is a boss though, and one that you have had for five years. There is time for a healthy relationship to form between the two of them, when good work is produced and respect and opportunities are given in return. So then it’s reasonable that Ms. Vinson would be able to trust her boss when he claimed he would take the responsibility for her actions. It would not occur to the three accountants that they would have to take responsibility until they realized how far into the future the problems would continue. The situation was comparable to telling an elaborate lie. The deeper it goes; the more lies must be told. At WorldCom, they must have realized that they were running out of places to hide their lies, and since Ms. Vinson and co. were deciding exactly where the lies were being hidden, they were the ones at fault. Bosses were no longer telling the accountants what to do, they were assuming the role.
	There is clear regret on the part of Ms. Vinson when she realizes what will happen to her. She is afraid of what will happen to her as well as her family, as she should be. Losing a mother and a wife can be crippling to a family. Being afraid is not a negative quality as the second article tries to articulate. Fear does not mean someone is a coward all of the time. It can also show that someone cares. Ms. Vinson is obviously afraid of her own fate, but also fears for how her daughter and husband will handle a situation in which she may be imprisoned for 15 years. Is she a coward for showing that kind of fear? The answer, is no. Maybe if she only feared for her own future, one might be able to call her a coward or selfish. Ms. Vinson’s fear, however, is a signal that she cares for the wellbeing of her family and that she is simply human. There is nothing cowardly about such sentiments.

The word “sorry” today seems to be little more than a space filler. People hear the word everywhere and its meaning is hardly paid attention to. Public figures such as actors, musicians, or athletes apologizes for their indiscretions, but people don’t generally change their opinion about somebody simply based off of that. The opinions we form about somebody’s actions will remain even after their apology because people aren’t stupid, for the most part and understand that such apologies are just a ploy. It’s a requirement to say the words so that the public knows that there is an acknowledgement of wrongdoing, but there’s rarely any follow up on those words. “Sorry” has become nothing but a reflex. We expect to hear it, and once we do, we move on until the next time someone messes up. 
	I remember the first time I heard a teacher respond to a student saying sorry, “No you’re not, you’re sorry you got caught”. That statement is probably a better definition for the word now than the one in the dictionary. There’s much more action that needs to take place to truly show that one is apologetic for their actions. Most of all, it can’t be used to erase what has been done all by itself - the way it’s used now. That’s great that a press conference is held for whomever to apologize publicly, but there needs to be follow up to those words. The parties must be able to communicate about the situation openly to begin repairing relationships, which requires willingness from the wronged as well. There also needs to be a clear set of steps as to why the apology will matter. This means there has to be more to the doer’s explanation than “It won’t happen again”. That person must realize why they did it, why it requires and apology, and how they will make sure that their actions will not be repeated. Once this sort of breakdown occurs, then an apology can start to gain some traction because people will realize that the one apologizing is actually trying to right their wrongs fundamentally. 
	The millennial generation has a particular problem with the word “sorry”. Social media and texting already limits our face to face interactions with people, but it makes dealing with difficult situations even more infrequent since there is a cyber wall to hide behind. It’s so much easier to type out an apology over a text and then not have to deal with emotional responses, than to see how you have truly hurt someone by saying it to their face. Instead, many from our generation can’t really deal with face to face conflict and end up displaying more emotion towards our phones than to other people, which I think will affect us well into our adult lives. And to bring back an earlier point, if public apologies are not deemed sufficient because they are merely words backed by nothing, then what the “sorrys” that we send electronically mean? They mean virtually nothing.
	It may sound absurd to many that apologizing should actually be dealing with wholesale changes from within someone. Our culture has appropriated this idea that it is no more passing gesture, if you can call it that. As long as there is an apology, then there is a general consensus that people can move on from the incident (barring legal action, etc.). This exactly the idea that needs to be reversed in order for the word “sorry” to gain some credibility again.
	Since the word has lost so much of its meaning, some high profile people find it difficult to earn peoples’ trust back. One such person is Lance Armstrong. Armstrong had quite a special case however, and really only has himself to blame for the way people perceive him today. The strange thing about his story is that he isn’t even remembered for his cheating so much as he is remembered for his bullying. Athletes have confessed to PED’s in the past and the public has their fit for the season or a couple months, and then forgets for the most part. Barry Bonds confessed and he is still considered the all-time leading home run hitter in major league baseball. Alex Rodriguez confessed and is still a fan favorite in New York no more than two years later. So if Armstrong had come out in the beginning and admitted to his use of steroids, then people would have forgiven him, history shows that. All they needed was acknowledgement of the wrongdoing, and they would have eventually gotten over it.
	In order for Lance Armstrong’s apology to have any significance, it will take a lot more action than the public apology or admission he gave. So many people looked up to him and his accomplishments and he abused that trust in such a way that would make it incredibly difficult to earn it back at all. Especially since in his admissions, like on the Oprah Winfrey show, he was still defiant to some aspects of the claims against, when it was just about the worst kept secret ever. His apology just seemed like it wasn’t genuine, and him denying some small parts of the claim on the show did not win any of his supporters back. This aspect, combined with the attacks he carried out on those trying to expose him ultimately has led to the majority of negativity associated with him. The article does not really mention anything about him attempting to make amends with those he bullied such as Mr. Landis or Mr. LeMond which is the most damning part of his “apology”. 
	The actions Lance Armstrong needed to take in order to gain back some respect and hope that people will forgive him again would start with those two men, along with anyone else who he bullied. Through his power and influence, he was able to make those men feel like they had done something wrong for trying to oust him. Showing signs of remorse to them, by actually meeting with them (if they would even accept a meeting with him, I’m not sure they would) and being open to a discussion about his actions. The biggest problem with Armstrong’s case is for how long he tried to squash his opposition. Mr. LeMond claims to have been attacked for 10 years by Armstrong, which could very well be an insurmountable amount of damage to repair. Even still, his only real hope of saving any dignity that might be left is to reach out to those he hurt and attempt to mend those ties. This would obviously be in addition to the inward soul searching necessary to truly understand his actions. It may all be too little too late for him in the public’s eyes however.


For the most part, the 11 guidelines on how to help someone better influence decision makers are common sense. Children are told very early on that “life is not fair”, typically when they do not get their way. Whether or not this is said light heartedly or not is another story, but some part of that saying stays with them. So it becomes less of a surprise to people as they grow up when they get a nasty professor or boss because experience has shown them that they won’t be able to get along with everyone. Likewise, most kids grow up taking part in some team activity, such as a sport or school academic event. In order to succeed in such team oriented activities, it was important to teach the young players that teamwork is the key. Those skills are not short sighted, as working well with people in a business is essential to both personal and overall success. Yet, these skills are just a part of people once they reach a certain age. Sure, we can always work on being a better team player or creating stronger presentations, but we already know what the more effective outcome is. People are generally raised knowing what will be most helpful, it’s just whether or not they act on that knowledge which makes the difference between a strong and weak employee.
	Peoples’ attitudes play a large role in how they react to negativity in the workplace. There are two ways to react to a decision that has not gone your way. An employee can pick themselves up and realize that as long as they’re doing what’s asked of them and attempting to contribute to the company in whatever way they can, then they will understand that future decisions will be made in their favor. Everybody wants to have their proposal picked in the meeting, but sometimes it just isn’t right for the company at that time. That’s up to a boss to decide. However, even if yours isn’t picked, if it is put together well and backed up by solid reasoning, then other employees and managers will recognize and respect the work. 
The other way to react, is to blame everyone else for your shortcomings. Having confidence is fine, and encouraged in moderation because one must be able to stand up for their work when it is put under scrutiny. However, feeling as if the work you have put forward is automatically superior to anyone else’s simply because it is yours is an attitude that does not benefit the company. Feeling anger towards your boss just because your proposal isn’t picked and without considering the work that others have put in shows a lack of respect towards fellow employees and management alike and will not reflect kindly on you in the future. Even more so that that however, it affects your personal work negatively because you people are “out to get you” or something of that sort.
The point of these two different reactions is to show how a different attitude will effect someone’s input into a company. Someone with a positive attitude will still be disappointed when their work isn’t recognized as the best on a given day. However, they will also recognize the fact that they can do better and will be able to improve their own skills in order to do even better in the future because they realize that what is being done is the best for the company. The fact that they weren’t chosen does not mean they will turn around and speak negatively of their peers or the company, and they won’t place blame on others for no reason. A person with a negative attitude on the other hand, will do just those things. They become toxic to their environment even if they don’t realize it, which helps nobody at all. 
	Companies are put into difficult positions at times when it comes to judging applicants’ attitudes towards work. People have become quite good at interviewing and letting companies hear what they want (although that may be changing), so they may not always be sure of the type of person that is being hired. Lots of resources are used to hire the right person for a job, yet if their attitude ends up in contrast of the 11 guidelines, then are they really worth keeping? Someone who is all about their personal agenda and argues with coworkers on every little detail or speaks ill of the company when they don’t get their way certainly doesn’t bring much productivity to the table, regardless of the skills that are on their resume. In fact, quite unlike skills, attitudes cannot be altered very easily since they are adopted by people from a young age, so businesses have very little control over this matter. Their only real option, is being scrupulous while interviewing people. This is especially important since attitudes can also influence how ethical someone’s behavior might be.
	There are obviously ups and downs to peoples’ behaviors and attitudes. We all go through rough days and through great ones. This is not the type of negativity that companies need to worry about though. Some people are just predisposed to having a negative outlook, as previously discussed. This damaging in its own respect to productivity, but can also be harmful through an ethical perspective. More businesses today are tasked with creating an open environment in which employees can feel free to point out unethical behavior than before. This is largely due to the big scandals dealing with companies such as WorldCom or Enron. When people are openly cooperative to such policies, it makes businesses operate in an effective way without threat of doing so illegally. People who think negatively however, may not see a need to report such behaviors though. There would need to be some benefit in their mind for them to bother acting on such information. If that person has already felt wronged by the company, then there is little chance that they will care to take action. The mindset of “what’s in it for me” can be a very dangerous one. 
Creating an open environment within a company can be tricky since it requires trust and communication. Managers must be open to sharing stories of ethical behavior, which might make them come off as arrogant, while employees must be open to communicating when they experience unethical behavior. If they carry a positive attitude, then they will realize what is best for the company, and be able to practice pointing out ethical and unethical behavior. The more this idea is spread, the better off a company will be, which is why finding the right employees is so important.
